I managed to find some data from the California Emergy Commision's website with energy generation data from 2009 to present. The data itself breaks down energy generated locally, imported, and categorically by fuel source. Seeing the overall energy generation in MW is nice, but not necessarily what I need to start my modeling or analysis. I've decided to shelve this dataset for later to test future hypothesis' I may develop down the line. For my purposes to estimate the charging costs of an EV I had to dig much deeper. I've discovered a niche market that supposedly all those who deal in electricity use and a new (to me) unit of measure: Locational Marginal Pricing (LMP). LMP gives the price of what electricity costs to deliver to a local area per MWh. 

For example: an LMP of $43.52 in more consumer centric terms would be $0.04352 per kWh. That's not the price we as a user of an EV charging station would pay, but the price we pay would be scaled off of this value. 

California ISO tracks the LMP all over the state of California and offers developers open use of the API. Which is great news for me. I've written some snippets of code to pull information from CAISO's database using their API and a python package 'pycaiso'. I had some issues with the API request pulling tutorial on CAISO's website, which I wouldn't be surprised if it is due to my own incorrect doings. I didn't want to get blocked for doing too many pulls requets while testing code, so instead I decided to use the pycaiso package insted. I originally tried to pull one month of data at a time but received a file too large error from my VS Code. I've since submitted an API key request and am patiently waiting. In the interim, I'll need to create some backup to use their open, free pull requests with the heavy limit in place. I find myself getting throttled by their API after about 5 pull requests in a day. 